Person Pages
============

There are many views that wrap the Person object to display the person's
information.


Email address disclosure
------------------------

PersonView is the base for many views for Person objects, including the
default view. It provides several properties to help display email
addresses.

Templates may use the state of the email_address_visibility property to
determine which message to show to the user. When the state is PUBLIC or
ALLOWED, the email_addresses property contains a list of the viewable
email addresses and the visible_email_address_description summarises who
can see them

Mark has a registered email address, and he has chosen to disclose it to
anyone in Launchpad..

    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.person import IPersonSet
    >>> person_set = getUtility(IPersonSet)
    >>> login('test@canonical.com')
    >>> mark = person_set.getByEmail('mark@example.com')
    >>> print(mark.preferredemail.email)
    mark@example.com

    >>> mark.hide_email_addresses
    False

Anonymous users cannot see any Launchpad user's email addresses. The
email addresses state is LOGIN_REQUIRED, there is no description, nor
are there any email addresses.

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(mark, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.is_login_required
    True

    >>> print(view.visible_email_address_description)
    None

    >>> view.visible_email_addresses
    []

Logged in user can see Mark's email addresses. The email addresses state
is PUBLIC. There is a description of who can see the list of email
addresses.

    >>> login('test@canonical.com')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(mark, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.are_public
    True

    >>> view.visible_email_address_description
    'This email address is only visible to Launchpad users.'

    >>> for email in view.visible_email_addresses:
    ...     print(email)
    mark@example.com

As for Sample Person, they have chosen not to disclose their email addresses.

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> sample_person = person_set.getByEmail('test@canonical.com')
    >>> sample_person.hide_email_addresses
    True

Anonymous users can't see them because the state is LOGIN_REQUIRED.

    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.is_login_required
    True

    >>> view.visible_email_addresses
    []

No Privileges Person cannot see them either because the state is HIDDEN.
There is no description for the email addresses because they cannot view
them.

    >>> login('no-priv@canonical.com')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.are_hidden
    True

    >>> print(view.visible_email_address_description)
    None

    >>> view.visible_email_addresses
    []

Admins and commercial admins, like Foo Bar and Commercial Member, can
see Sample Person's email addresses because the state is ALLOWED. The
description states that the email addresses are not disclosed to others.

    >>> login('foo.bar@canonical.com')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.are_allowed
    True

    >>> view.visible_email_address_description
    'This email address is not disclosed to others.'

    >>> for email in view.visible_email_addresses:
    ...     print(email)
    test@canonical.com
    testing@canonical.com

    >>> login('commercial-member@canonical.com')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.are_allowed
    True

    >>> for email in view.visible_email_addresses:
    ...     print(email)
    test@canonical.com
    testing@canonical.com

Teams are like Persons. No email address is disclosed when the user is
anonymous.

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> ubuntu_team = person_set.getByName('ubuntu-team')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(ubuntu_team, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.is_login_required
    True

    >>> view.visible_email_addresses
    []

A logged in user can see the team's contact address because it cannot be
hidden.

    >>> login('no-priv@canonical.com')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(ubuntu_team, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.are_public
    True

    >>> for email in view.visible_email_addresses:
    ...     print(email)
    support@ubuntu.com

It is possible for a team to have more than two addresses (from a
mailing list), but only the preferred address is listed in the
visible_email_addresses property.

    >>> email_address = factory.makeEmail(
    ...     'ubuntu_team@canonical.com', ubuntu_team)
    >>> ubuntu_team.setContactAddress(email_address)
    >>> mailing_list = factory.makeMailingList(
    ...     ubuntu_team, ubuntu_team.teamowner)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(ubuntu_team, '+index')
    >>> for email in view.visible_email_addresses:
    ...     print(email)
    ubuntu_team@canonical.com

When the user or team does not have a validated contact address, the
email addresses state is NONE_AVAILABLE.

    >>> landscape_developers = person_set.getByName('landscape-developers')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(landscape_developers, '+index')
    >>> view.email_address_visibility.are_none_available
    True

    >>> print(view.visible_email_address_description)
    None

    >>> view.visible_email_addresses
    []


Languages
---------

The PersonView provides a comma separated list of languages that a
person speaks. The contact details portlet displays the user languages.

English is the default language in Launchpad. If the user has not set
their preferred languages, English is used.

    >>> sample_person.languages
    []

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_view(sample_person, '+portlet-contact-details')
    >>> print(view.languages)
    English

This assumption is visible to the user when they view their own profile
page, and they can set their preferred languages if they want to make a
correction. The list of languages is alphabetized.

    >>> from lp.services.worlddata.interfaces.language import ILanguageSet

    >>> languageset = getUtility(ILanguageSet)
    >>> login('test@canonical.com')
    >>> sample_person.addLanguage(languageset.getLanguageByCode('so'))
    >>> sample_person.addLanguage(languageset.getLanguageByCode('fr'))

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_view(sample_person, '+portlet-contact-details')
    >>> print(view.languages)
    French, Somali

Teams may have languages too. English is the default if the team has not
set a language.

    >>> landscape_developers.languages
    []

    >>> view = create_view(landscape_developers, '+portlet-contact-details')
    >>> print(view.languages)
    English

Teams most often set just one language that is used for the Answers
application. If the language is a variant, the variation is shown in
parenthesis.
    >>> login('test@canonical.com')
    >>> landscape_developers.addLanguage(
    ...     languageset.getLanguageByCode('pt_BR'))
    >>> view = create_view(landscape_developers, '+portlet-contact-details')
    >>> print(view.languages)
    Portuguese (Brazil)

Things a person is working on
-----------------------------

PersonView is the base for many views for Person objects. It provides
several properties to help display things the user is working on.

The +portlet-currentfocus view is responsible for rendering the "Working
on..." section in the Person profile page (+index). Nothing is rendered
when the user does not have any assigned bug or specs that are not in
progress.

    >>> user = factory.makePerson(name='ken')
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(user, name='+portlet-currentfocus')
    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    False

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    0

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    0

    >>> from lp.testing.pages import extract_text
    >>> len(extract_text(view.render()))
    0

Assigned specifications that do not display when they are not in an in
progress state.

    >>> from lp.blueprints.enums import SpecificationImplementationStatus

    >>> ignored = login_person(user)
    >>> product = factory.makeProduct(name="tool", owner=user)
    >>> spec = factory.makeSpecification(
    ...     product=product, title='Specs need stories')
    >>> spec.assignee = user
    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    False

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    0

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    0

The specification is displayed only when it is in a in progress state
(The state may be any from STARTED though DEPLOYMENT). Below the list of
specifications is a link to show all the specifications that the user is
working on.

    >>> from lp.blueprints.enums import SpecificationDefinitionStatus

    >>> spec.definition_status = SpecificationDefinitionStatus.APPROVED
    >>> newstate = spec.updateLifecycleStatus(user)
    >>> spec.implementation_status = SpecificationImplementationStatus.STARTED
    >>> newstate = spec.updateLifecycleStatus(user)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(user, name='+portlet-currentfocus')
    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    True

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    0

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    1

    >>> print(view.render())
    <div id="working-on"...
    <a href="/~ken/+specs?role=assignee"> All assigned blueprints </a>...
    ...<a ...href="http://blueprints.launchpad.test/tool/+spec/..."...>Specs
      need stories</a>...
    </div>...

Assigned bugs do not display when their status is not INPROGRESS.

    >>> bug = factory.makeBug(target=product, title='tool does not work')
    >>> bug.bugtasks[0].transitionToAssignee(user)
    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    True

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    0

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    1

The assigned bug is displayed in the "Working on..." section when its
status is in INPROGRESS.

    >>> from lp.bugs.interfaces.bugtask import BugTaskStatus
    >>> bug.bugtasks[0].transitionToStatus(BugTaskStatus.INPROGRESS, user)

    # Create a new view because we're testing some cached properties.

    >>> view = create_initialized_view(user, name='+portlet-currentfocus')

    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    True

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    1

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    1

    >>> print(view.render())
    <div id="working-on"...
    <a href="http://launchpad.test/~ken/+assignedbugs?...">
      All bugs in progress </a>...
    ...<a href="http://bugs.launchpad.test/tool/+bug/..."...>tool
      does not work</a>...
    <a href="/~ken/+specs?role=assignee">
      All assigned blueprints </a>...
    ...<a ...href="http://blueprints.launchpad.test/tool/+spec/..."...>Specs
      need stories</a>...
    </div>...

Multiple bugs and specs are displayed.

    >>> another_bug = factory.makeBug(
    ...     target=product, title='tool does is broken')
    >>> another_bug.bugtasks[0].transitionToAssignee(user)
    >>> another_bug.bugtasks[0].transitionToStatus(
    ...     BugTaskStatus.INPROGRESS, user)

    # Create a new view because we're testing some cached properties.

    >>> view = create_initialized_view(user, name='+portlet-currentfocus')

    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    True

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    2

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    1

But duplicate bugs are never displayed.

    >>> another_bug.markAsDuplicate(bug)

    # Create a new view because we're testing some cached properties.

    >>> view = create_initialized_view(user, name='+portlet-currentfocus')

    >>> view.has_assigned_bugs_or_specs_in_progress
    True

    >>> len(view.assigned_bugs_in_progress)
    1

    >>> len(view.assigned_specs_in_progress)
    1


Person +index "Personal package archives" section
-------------------------------------------------

The person:+index page has a section titled "Personal package archives",
which is conditionally displayed depending on the value of the view
property `should_show_ppa_section`.

The property checks two things to decide whether to return True or not:

 * Return True if the current user has launchpad.Edit permission
 * Return True if the person has PPAs and at least one of them is viewable
   by the current user.

Cprov is a user with a PPA:

    >>> cprov = person_set.getByName("cprov")

Anonymous users (i.e. anyone) can see the section.

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(cprov, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    True

Cprov himself can see the section:

    >>> login("celso.providelo@canonical.com")
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(cprov, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    True

If we disable Cprov's PPA, the section is not presented to anonymous
users who cannot view the PPA, but is displayed to Celso.

    >>> login("admin@canonical.com")
    >>> cprov.archive.disable()

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(cprov, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    False

    >>> login("celso.providelo@canonical.com")
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(cprov, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    True

If the PPA is private, only the owner will see the section.

    >>> login("admin@canonical.com")
    >>> private_ppa = factory.makeArchive(private=True)

    >>> ignored = login_person(private_ppa.owner)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(private_ppa.owner, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    True

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(private_ppa.owner, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    False

For a user with no PPAs, nobody will see the section apart from themselves.
This aspect allows them to access the 'Create a new PPA' link.

    >>> print(sample_person.archive)
    None

    >>> ignored = login_person(sample_person)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    True

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    False

If the person is a member of teams with PPAs but doesn't own any
themselves, the section will still not appear for anyone but people with
lp.edit.

    >>> from lp.app.interfaces.launchpad import ILaunchpadCelebrities

    >>> login("admin@canonical.com")
    >>> team = factory.makeTeam()
    >>> ignored = team.addMember(sample_person, sample_person)
    >>> ubuntu = getUtility(ILaunchpadCelebrities).ubuntu
    >>> ppa = factory.makeArchive(distribution=ubuntu, owner=team)

    >>> login(ANONYMOUS)
    >>> view = create_initialized_view(sample_person, "+index")
    >>> view.should_show_ppa_section
    False
