Specification graphs
====================

A SpecGraph object manages a set of SpecNodes and the edges that connect
the nodes.  It knows how to output itself in `dot` format, for use by
Graphviz.

A SpecGraph has a root node, and then various other nodes.  You can make
connections between nodes using its 'link' method.  Each node is
identified by its name, which is the database name of the specification
that the node represents.

Use the SpecGraph as a factory for creating new nodes.  This allows the
SpecGraph to keep track of the nodes that have been added.

    >>> from lp.blueprints.browser.specification import SpecGraph
    >>> g = SpecGraph()
    >>> g.url_pattern_for_testing = 'http://whatever/%s'
    >>> default_target = factory.makeProduct(name='fnord')

    >>> class Spec:
    ...
    ...     def __init__(self, name,
    ...             is_complete=False, title=None, assignee=None):
    ...         self.name = name
    ...         self.target = default_target
    ...         self.title = title or name
    ...         self.is_complete = is_complete
    ...         self.assignee = assignee
    ...         # Use lists here to ensure that the code converts them
    ...         # to sets explicitly, like it has to do for SelectResults.
    ...         self._dependencies = []
    ...         # This is a hack for testing: we can set up dependencies,
    ...         # and simply use their "mirror image" for blocked specs.
    ...         self._blocked_specs = self._dependencies
    ...
    ...     def getDependencies(self, user):
    ...         return self._dependencies
    ...
    ...     def getBlockedSpecs(self, user):
    ...         return self._blocked_specs

    >>> foo = Spec('foo', title='something with " and \n in it')
    >>> root = g.newNode(foo, root=True)

    >>> print(root)
    <fnord-foo>

Note that the root DOT data doesn't have a URL.  This is because we
don't want a link to the spec we're currently looking at.

    >>> print(root.getDOTNodeStatement())
    "fnord-foo"
        [
        "color"="red",
        "comment"="something with \" and \n in it",
        "label"="foo",
        "tooltip"="something with \" and \n in it"
        ]

    >>> print(g.root_node)
    <fnord-foo>

    >>> print(root.name, root.label, root.URL, root.color)
    fnord-foo foo http://whatever/foo red

    >>> other_spec = factory.makeSpecification()
    >>> g.getNode(other_spec) is None
    True

    >>> g.getNode(foo) is root
    True

    >>> print(g.listNodes())
    Root is <fnord-foo>
    <fnord-foo>:

    >>> foo1 = Spec('foo1')
    >>> foo._dependencies.append(foo1)
    >>> foo2 = Spec('foo2')
    >>> foo._dependencies.append(foo2)
    >>> foo11 = Spec('foo11')
    >>> foo1._dependencies.append(foo11)
    >>> foo111 = Spec('foo111')
    >>> foo11._dependencies.append(foo111)

    >>> def make_graph(dependency, blocked):
    ...     g = SpecGraph()
    ...     g.url_pattern_for_testing = 'http://whatever/%s'
    ...     g.newNode(foo, root=True)
    ...     if dependency:
    ...         g.addDependencyNodes(foo)
    ...     if blocked:
    ...         g.addBlockedNodes(foo)
    ...     return g

    >>> def print_graph(dependency=True, blocked=False):
    ...     print(make_graph(dependency, blocked).listNodes())

    >>> def print_graph_dot(dependency=True, blocked=False):
    ...     print(make_graph(dependency, blocked).getDOTGraphStatement())

    >>> print_graph()
    Root is <fnord-foo>
    <fnord-foo>:
    <fnord-foo1>:
        fnord-foo
    <fnord-foo11>:
        fnord-foo1
    <fnord-foo111>:
        fnord-foo11
    <fnord-foo2>:
        fnord-foo

    >>> print_graph_dot()
    digraph "deptree" {
    graph
        [
        "bgcolor"="#ffffff",
        "mode"="hier",
        "nodesep"="0.01",
        "ranksep"="0.25",
        "ratio"="compress",
        "size"="9.2,9"
        ]
    node
        [
        "fillcolor"="white",
        "fontname"="Sans",
        "fontsize"="11",
        "style"="filled"
        ]
    edge
        [
        "arrowhead"="normal"
        ]
    "fnord-foo"
        [
        "color"="red",
        "comment"="something with \" and \n in it",
        "label"="foo",
        "tooltip"="something with \" and \n in it"
        ]
    "fnord-foo1"
        [
        "URL"="http://whatever/foo1",
        "color"="black",
        "comment"="foo1",
        "label"="foo1",
        "tooltip"="foo1"
        ]
    "fnord-foo11"
        [
        "URL"="http://whatever/foo11",
        "color"="black",
        "comment"="foo11",
        "label"="foo11",
        "tooltip"="foo11"
        ]
    "fnord-foo111"
        [
        "URL"="http://whatever/foo111",
        "color"="black",
        "comment"="foo111",
        "label"="foo111",
        "tooltip"="foo111"
        ]
    "fnord-foo2"
        [
        "URL"="http://whatever/foo2",
        "color"="black",
        "comment"="foo2",
        "label"="foo2",
        "tooltip"="foo2"
        ]
    "fnord-foo1" -> "fnord-foo"
    "fnord-foo11" -> "fnord-foo1"
    "fnord-foo111" -> "fnord-foo11"
    "fnord-foo2" -> "fnord-foo"
    }

The graph grows when specifications gain more dependencies.

    >>> foo1._dependencies.append(foo)
    >>> foo111._dependencies.append(foo1)
    >>> foo111._dependencies.append(foo)
    >>> foo2._dependencies.append(foo1)
    >>> foo1._dependencies.append(foo2)
    >>> print_graph()
    Root is <fnord-foo>
    <fnord-foo>:
        fnord-foo1
        fnord-foo111
    <fnord-foo1>:
        fnord-foo
        fnord-foo111
        fnord-foo2
    <fnord-foo11>:
        fnord-foo1
    <fnord-foo111>:
        fnord-foo11
    <fnord-foo2>:
        fnord-foo
        fnord-foo1

And finally, try checking out the blocked specs too.  Because of the
hack earlier, we have a "mirror image" of the dependencies in the
blocked speces.

    >>> print_graph(dependency=False, blocked=True)
    Root is <fnord-foo>
    <fnord-foo>:
        fnord-foo1
        fnord-foo2
    <fnord-foo1>:
        fnord-foo
        fnord-foo11
        fnord-foo2
    <fnord-foo11>:
        fnord-foo111
    <fnord-foo111>:
        fnord-foo
        fnord-foo1
    <fnord-foo2>:
        fnord-foo1

A spec with the same name, but from a different target can be a in
the graph.

    >>> test_graph = SpecGraph()
    >>> ant_spec = factory.makeSpecification(name='ant')
    >>> a_bat_spec = factory.makeSpecification(name='bat')
    >>> b_bat_spec = factory.makeSpecification(name='bat')
    >>> ignore = ant_spec.createDependency(a_bat_spec)
    >>> ignore = ant_spec.createDependency(b_bat_spec)
    >>> ant_node = test_graph.newNode(ant_spec, root=True)
    >>> a_bat_node = test_graph.newNode(a_bat_spec)
    >>> b_bat_node = test_graph.newNode(b_bat_spec)
    >>> test_graph.getNode(b_bat_spec) is b_bat_node
    True


SpecificationTreeImageTag and SpecificationView
-----------------------------------------------

The SpecificationTreeImageTag subclass will generate a HTML image map
tag when the render() method is called.

    >>> from zope.component import getMultiAdapter
    >>> from lp.blueprints.browser.specification import (
    ...     SpecificationTreeImageTag)
    >>> from lp.services.webapp.servers import LaunchpadTestRequest
    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.product import IProductSet

    >>> firefox = getUtility(IProductSet).getByName('firefox')
    >>> svg_support = firefox.getSpecification('svg-support')
    >>> request = LaunchpadTestRequest(form={})
    >>> graph_view = getMultiAdapter(
    ...     (svg_support, request), name="+deptreeimgtag")
    >>> graph_view.initialize()
    >>> isinstance(graph_view, SpecificationTreeImageTag)
    True

    >>> print(graph_view.render())
    <img src="deptree.png" usemap="#deptree" />
    <map id="deptree" name="deptree"> ...

The real work of converting the graph data into an image map is done by
the renderGraphvizGraph() method from the view's parent class. The
method will make an image map when 'cmapx' is passed as an argument; It
also makes PNG images when it is passed 'png' as an argument.

    >>> print(graph_view.renderGraphvizGraph('cmapx').decode('UTF-8'))
    <map id="deptree" name="deptree">...

The SpecificationTreeImageTag view is indirectly called when the spec's
+index template calls render().

    >>> login('no-priv@canonical.com', request)
    >>> page_view = getMultiAdapter((svg_support, request), name="+index")
    >>> page_view.initialize()
    >>> content = page_view.render()
    >>> image_start = content.find('<map id="deptree"')
    >>> print(content[image_start:image_start + 33])
    <map id="deptree" name="deptree">


renderGraphvizGraph() error handling
------------------------------------

The renderGraphvizGraph() method may raise a ProblemRenderingGraph error
running the subprocess. The error could be caused because the data sent
to the command is bad:

    # Replace getDotFileText() with a fake function that will return
    # bad data.

    >>> from lp.blueprints.browser import specification
    >>> graph_view_class = specification.SpecificationTreeGraphView
    >>> original_getDotFileText = graph_view_class.getDotFileText
    >>> def fake_getDotFileText(format):
    ...     return 'bad data'
    >>> graph_view_class.getDotFileText = fake_getDotFileText

    >>> graph_view = getMultiAdapter(
    ...     (svg_support, request), name="+deptreeimgtag")
    >>> graph_view.initialize()
    >>> graph_view.renderGraphvizGraph('cmapx')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
     ...
    lp.blueprints.browser.specification.ProblemRenderingGraph:
    (... syntax error in line 1 near 'bad'...)

The SpecificationTreeImageTag.render() method captures the raised error
and directly converts it into an oops report. The markup contains a
message explaining that the image was not linked.

    >>> print(graph_view.render())
    <img src="deptree.png" usemap="#deptree" />
    <p class="error message">There was an error linking the dependency tree
    to its specs.</p>

    >>> oops_report = graph_view.request.oops
    >>> print(oops_report['type'], oops_report['value'])
    ProblemRenderingGraph (... syntax error in line 1 near 'bad'...)

    # Restore the getDotFileText() method.

    >>> graph_view_class.getDotFileText = original_getDotFileText

The renderGraphvizGraph() pipes data to a subprocess. That subprocess
can raise errors like OSError.

    # Replace the Popen object with a fake function that will raise
    # an OSError.

    >>> original_popen = specification.Popen
    >>> def fake_popen(*args, **kwargs):
    ...     raise OSError(12, 'Cannot allocate memory')
    >>> specification.Popen = fake_popen

    >>> graph_view = getMultiAdapter(
    ...     (svg_support, request), name="+deptreeimgtag")
    >>> graph_view.initialize()
    >>> graph_view.renderGraphvizGraph('cmapx')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
     ...
    OSError: [Errno 12] Cannot allocate memory

The OSError raised creating the image map does not break the spec index
page. Again, the image map was replaced with an suggestion to reload the
page to link the image.

    >>> print(graph_view.render())
    <img src="deptree.png" usemap="#deptree" />
    <p class="error message">There was an error linking the dependency tree
    to its specs. Reload the page to link the image.</p>

    >>> oops_report = graph_view.request.oops
    >>> print(oops_report['type'], oops_report['value'])
    OSError [Errno 12] Cannot allocate memory

If an error occurs during the render of the PNG image, the fail over
image (icing/blueprints-deptree-error.png) is returned. It's size is
3092 bytes.

    >>> graph_view = getMultiAdapter(
    ...     (svg_support, request), name="deptree.png")
    >>> graph_view.initialize()
    >>> graph_view.renderGraphvizGraph('png')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
     ...
    OSError: [Errno 12] Cannot allocate memory

    >>> image = graph_view.render()
    >>> image.startswith(b'\x89PNG')
    True

    >>> fail_over_image_length = len(image)
    >>> fail_over_image_length
    3092

The dependency graph image is rendered correctly when Popen is restored.

    # Restore the Popen object.

    >>> specification.Popen = original_popen

    >>> graph_view = getMultiAdapter(
    ...     (svg_support, request), name="deptree.png")
    >>> graph_view.initialize()
    >>> image = graph_view.render()
    >>> image.startswith(b'\x89PNG')
    True

    >>> len(image) != fail_over_image_length
    True
