TestBugzillaXMLRPCTransport
===========================

The TestBugzillaXMLRPCTransport is an XML-RPC transport which simulates
a remote Bugzilla instance that implements the Launchpad plugin API.

    >>> import xmlrpc.client
    >>> from lp.bugs.tests.externalbugtracker import (
    ...     TestBugzillaXMLRPCTransport)
    >>> bugzilla_transport = TestBugzillaXMLRPCTransport(
    ...     'http://example.com/xmlrpc.cgi')
    >>> server = xmlrpc.client.ServerProxy(
    ...     'http://example.com/xmlrpc.cgi', transport=bugzilla_transport)

The test transport will only allow calls to methods in a predefined set
of namespaces.

    >>> server.spam.eggs()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    AssertionError: All methods should be in one of the following
    namespaces: ...

Adding a new namespace to the transport's methods dict will make methods
in that namespace callable. Of course, if the method doesn't exist, an
error will be raised.

    >>> bugzilla_transport.methods['spam'] = ['eggs']
    >>> server.spam.eggs()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    AttributeError: ...TestBugzillaXMLRPCTransport... has no attribute 'eggs'

    >>> del bugzilla_transport.methods['spam']

If a namespace exists but there is no method registered under that
namespace with a given method name, an AssertionError will be raised.

    >>> 'unregistered_method' in bugzilla_transport.methods['Launchpad']
    False

    >>> server.Launchpad.unregistered_method()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    AssertionError: No method 'unregistered_method' in namespace 'Launchpad'.


Authentication
--------------

Some methods require authentication.

    >>> server.Test.login_required()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    xmlrpc.client.Fault: <Fault 410: 'Login Required'>

To be authenticated, we need to provide a login cookie. The test
transport doesn't validate this cookie, it just checks that it exists.

    >>> bugzilla_transport.setCookie(
    ...     "Bugzilla_logincookie=Want moar cookies plz")
    >>> print(server.Test.login_required())
    Wonderful, you've logged in! Aren't you a clever biped?


Launchpad.login()
-----------------

The Launchpad.login() method is used to log in to the remote service. It
takes a single parameter, token, which is a Launchpad LoginToken.

We can use the internal XML-RPC API to generate such a token.

    >>> from lp.bugs.xmlrpc.bug import ExternalBugTrackerTokenAPI
    >>> token_api = ExternalBugTrackerTokenAPI(None, None)
    >>> token_text = token_api.newBugTrackerToken()

Launchpad.login() will check that the token is valid and will set two
cookies, Bugzilla_logincookie and Bugzilla_login, in its response. It
will also return the user ID of the user on the Bugzilla instance.

In the test instance, the cookie is randomly generated. The returned
user id is always the same.

    >>> response_dict = server.Launchpad.login({'token': token_text})
    >>> print(response_dict['user_id'])
    42

The login cookies are in the transport's cookie jar.

    >>> print(bugzilla_transport.cookie_jar)
    <RequestsCookieJar[<Cookie Bugzilla_login=...>,
                       <Cookie Bugzilla_logincookie=...>]>


Launchpad.time()
----------------

Launchpad.time() returns the current time on the remote server, the
remote server's timezone and what the remote server believes to be the
current UTC time.

    >>> time_dict = server.Launchpad.time()
    >>> for key in sorted(time_dict):
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, time_dict[key]))
    local_time: 2008-05-01 01:01:01
    tz_name: UTC
    utc_time: 2008-05-01 01:01:01

We can set the local time value on the remote server to make testing
more useful.

    >>> from datetime import datetime

    >>> remote_datetime = datetime(2008, 5, 15, 16, 19, 53)
    >>> bugzilla_transport.local_datetime = remote_datetime
    >>> bugzilla_transport.timezone = "US/Central"
    >>> bugzilla_transport.utc_offset = -6*60*60

    >>> time_dict = server.Launchpad.time()
    >>> for key in sorted(time_dict):
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, time_dict[key]))
    local_time: 2008-05-15 16:19:53
    tz_name: US/Central
    utc_time: 2008-05-15 22:19:53


Launchpad.get_bugs()
--------------------

The plugin API offers a get_bugs() method which can be used to retrieve
bugs from a remote Bugzilla instance. It takes a list of bug IDs to
retrieve and returns a list of dicts containing those bugs' data.  As is
standard with the Bugzilla XMLRPC API, arguments are enclosed in a dict
so that they are treated as "key: value" pairs.

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs(
    ...     {'ids': [1], 'permissive': True})
    >>> [bug_dict] = return_value['bugs']
    >>> for key in sorted(bug_dict):
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, bug_dict[key]))
    alias:
    assigned_to: test@canonical.com
    component: GPPSystems
    creation_time: 2008-06-10 16:19:53
    id: 1
    internals:...
    is_open: True
    last_change_time: 2008-06-10 16:19:53
    priority: P1
    product: Marvin
    resolution: FIXED
    see_also: []
    severity: normal
    status: RESOLVED
    summary: That bloody robot still exists.

If more than one ID is specified when get_bugs() is called, more than
one bug will be returned (assuming they all exist and are accessible).

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs(
    ...     {'ids': [1, 2], 'permissive': True})
    >>> bug_dicts = return_value['bugs']
    >>> for bug_dict in bug_dicts:
    ...     for key in sorted(bug_dict):
    ...         print("%s: %s" % (key, bug_dict[key]))
    ...     print()
    alias:
    assigned_to: test@canonical.com
    component: GPPSystems
    creation_time: 2008-06-10 16:19:53
    id: 1
    internals:...
    is_open: True
    last_change_time: 2008-06-10 16:19:53
    priority: P1
    product: Marvin
    resolution: FIXED
    see_also: []
    severity: normal
    status: RESOLVED
    summary: That bloody robot still exists.
    <BLANKLINE>
    alias: bug-two
    assigned_to: marvin@heartofgold.ship
    component: Crew
    creation_time: 2008-06-11 09:23:12
    id: 2
    internals:...
    is_open: True
    last_change_time: 2008-06-11 09:24:29
    priority: P1
    product: HeartOfGold
    resolution:
    see_also: []
    severity: high
    status: NEW
    summary: Collect unknown persons in docking bay 2.

Bug aliases can also be used to request remote bugs.

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs(
    ...     {'ids': ['bug-two'], 'permissive': True})
    >>> [bug_dict] = return_value['bugs']
    >>> for key in sorted(bug_dict):
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, bug_dict[key]))
    alias: bug-two
    assigned_to: marvin@heartofgold.ship
    component: Crew
    creation_time: 2008-06-11 09:23:12
    id: 2
    internals:...
    is_open: True
    last_change_time: 2008-06-11 09:24:29
    priority: P1
    product: HeartOfGold
    resolution:
    see_also: []
    severity: high
    status: NEW
    summary: Collect unknown persons in docking bay 2.

Specifying a 'changed_since' parameter when calling Launchpad.get_bugs()
will cause the method to only return bugs that have changed since that
date / time. This acts as an intersection with the 'ids' parameter,
allowing Launchpad to get only the recently-updated subset of a given
set of remote bugs.

    >>> changed_since = datetime(2008, 6, 11, 9, 0, 0)

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs({
    ...     'ids': [1, 2],
    ...     'changed_since': changed_since,
    ...     'permissive': True,
    ...     })

    >>> bug_dicts = return_value['bugs']
    >>> assert len(bug_dicts) == 1, "There should only be one bug dict."

    >>> bug_dict = bug_dicts[0]
    >>> for key in sorted(bug_dict):
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, bug_dict[key]))
    alias: bug-two
    assigned_to: marvin@heartofgold.ship
    component: Crew
    creation_time: 2008-06-11 09:23:12
    id: 2
    internals:...
    is_open: True
    last_change_time: 2008-06-11 09:24:29
    priority: P1
    product: HeartOfGold
    resolution:
    see_also: []
    severity: high
    status: NEW
    summary: Collect unknown persons in docking bay 2.

Setting changed_since to a date in the future will mean that no bugs are
returned.

    >>> from datetime import timedelta
    >>> changed_since = datetime.now() + timedelta(days=42)

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs({
    ...     'ids': [1, 2],
    ...     'changed_since': changed_since,
    ...     'permissive': True,
    ...     })

    >>> bug_dicts = return_value['bugs']
    >>> len(bug_dicts)
    0

Specifying a 'products' parameter will cause Launchpad.get_bugs() to
only return bugs which affect those products.

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs({
    ...     'products': ['HeartOfGold'],
    ...     'permissive': True,
    ...     })

    >>> bug_dicts = return_value['bugs']
    >>> assert len(bug_dicts) == 1, "There should only be one bug dict."

    >>> bug_dict = bug_dicts[0]
    >>> for key in sorted(bug_dict):
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, bug_dict[key]))
    alias: bug-two
    assigned_to: marvin@heartofgold.ship
    component: Crew
    creation_time: 2008-06-11 09:23:12
    id: 2
    internals:...
    is_open: True
    last_change_time: 2008-06-11 09:24:29
    priority: P1
    product: HeartOfGold
    resolution:
    see_also: []
    severity: high
    status: NEW
    summary: Collect unknown persons in docking bay 2.

If both products and ids are specified when calling
Launchpad.get_bugs(), the union of bugs in (ids, products) will be
returned.

    >>> return_value = server.Launchpad.get_bugs({
    ...     'ids': [1],
    ...     'products': ['HeartOfGold'],
    ...     'permissive': True,
    ...     })

    >>> bug_dicts = return_value['bugs']
    >>> len(bug_dicts)
    0


Launchpad.comments()
--------------------

The Launchpad Bugzilla plugin defines a Launchpad.comments() method which
allows a remote system to get the comments for a given bug or set of
bugs. We'll define a helper method for printing out comments.

    >>> import operator
    >>> def print_bug_comments(bugs_dict, sort_key='number'):
    ...     for key in sorted(bugs_dict):
    ...         print("Bug %s:" % key)
    ...         bug_comments = sorted(
    ...             bugs_dict[key],
    ...             key=operator.itemgetter(sort_key))
    ...
    ...         for comment in bug_comments:
    ...             for comment_key in sorted(comment):
    ...                 print("    %s: %s" % (
    ...                     comment_key, comment[comment_key]))
    ...             print()
    ...         print()

If Launchpad.comments() is passed a list of bug IDs it will return all
the comments for all of those bugs.

    >>> return_dict = server.Launchpad.comments({'bug_ids': [1, 2]})
    >>> bugs_dict = return_dict['bugs']

    >>> print_bug_comments(bugs_dict)
    Bug 1:
        author: trillian
        id: 1
        number: 1
        text: I'd really appreciate it if Marvin would enjoy life a bit.
        time: 2008-06-16 12:44:29
    <BLANKLINE>
        author: marvin
        id: 3
        number: 2
        text: Life? Don't talk to me about life.
        time: 2008-06-16 13:22:29
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    Bug 2:
        author: trillian
        id: 2
        number: 1
        text: Bring the passengers to the bridge please Marvin.
        time: 2008-06-16 13:08:08
    <BLANKLINE>
        author: Ford Prefect <ford.prefect@h2g2.com>
        id: 4
        number: 2
        text: I appear to have become a perfectly safe penguin.
        time: 2008-06-17 20:28:40

If an ids parameter is specified along with bug_ids, only the comments
whose IDs are in the list of IDs passed will be returned.

    >>> return_dict = server.Launchpad.comments(
    ...     {'bug_ids': [1, 2], 'ids': [1, 2]})
    >>> bugs_dict = return_dict['bugs']

    >>> print_bug_comments(bugs_dict)
    Bug 1:
        author: trillian
        id: 1
        number: 1
        text: I'd really appreciate it if Marvin would enjoy life a bit.
        time: 2008-06-16 12:44:29
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    Bug 2:
        author: trillian
        id: 2
        number: 1
        text: Bring the passengers to the bridge please Marvin.
        time: 2008-06-16 13:08:08

Passing an include_fields parameter allows us to limit which fields are
returned for each comment.

    >>> return_dict = server.Launchpad.comments(
    ...     {'bug_ids': [1, 2], 'include_fields': ('id', 'author')})
    >>> bugs_dict = return_dict['bugs']

    >>> print_bug_comments(bugs_dict, sort_key='id')
    Bug 1:
        author: trillian
        id: 1
    <BLANKLINE>
        author: marvin
        id: 3
    <BLANKLINE>
    <BLANKLINE>
    Bug 2:
        author: trillian
        id: 2
    <BLANKLINE>
        author: Ford Prefect <ford.prefect@h2g2.com>
        id: 4

It's worth noting that, due to a quirk in the XML-RPC spec, the bug IDs
in the returned 'bugs' dict are strings, not integers:

    >>> print(sorted(bugs_dict))
    ['1', '2']


Launchpad.add_comment()
-----------------------

The plugin API offers a method, Launchpad.add_comment(), which can be
used to add comments to a remote bug. It takes two arguments: the ID of
the remote comment and the body of the comment to be added to it.

add_comment() requires authentication.

    >>> bugzilla_transport.expireCookie(bugzilla_transport.auth_cookie)
    >>> server.Launchpad.add_comment({'id': 1, 'comment': "This won't work"})
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    xmlrpc.client.Fault: <Fault 410: 'Login Required'>

Launchpad.add_comment() will return the integer comment ID of the new comment
on the remote server.

    >>> comment = "Didn't we have a lovely time the day we went to Bangor?"
    >>> bugzilla_transport.setCookie('Bugzilla_logincookie=open sesame')
    >>> return_dict = server.Launchpad.add_comment(
    ...     {'id': 1, 'comment': comment})
    >>> print(return_dict['comment_id'])
    7

The comment will be stored with the other comments on the remote server.

    >>> return_dict = server.Launchpad.comments({'bug_ids': [1], 'ids': [7]})
    >>> bugs_dict = return_dict['bugs']

    >>> print_bug_comments(bugs_dict, sort_key='id')
    Bug 1:
        author: launchpad
        id: 7
        number: 3
        text: Didn't we have a lovely time the day we went to Bangor?
        time: ...

If add_comment is called on a bug that doesn't exist a fault will be
raised.

    >>> server.Launchpad.add_comment({'id': 42, 'comment': "This won't work"})
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    xmlrpc.client.Fault: <Fault 101: 'Bug #42 does not exist.'>


Launchpad.set_link()
--------------------

The plugin API method Launchpad.set_link() allows Launchpad to tell the
remote Bugzilla which Launchpad bug links to a given bug on that
Bugzilla. It takes two arguments: the ID of the remote bug and the ID of
the Launchpad bug linking to it.

Launchpad.set_link() requires authentication.

    >>> bugzilla_transport.expireCookie(bugzilla_transport.auth_cookie)
    >>> server.Launchpad.set_link({'id': 1, 'launchpad_id': 1})
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    xmlrpc.client.Fault: <Fault 410: 'Login Required'>

Launchpad.set_link() will return  0 if no Launchpad bug has ever linked
to the remote bug.

    >>> bugzilla_transport.setCookie("Bugzilla_logincookie=here we go again")
    >>> result = server.Launchpad.set_link({'id': 1, 'launchpad_id': 10})
    >>> print(result['launchpad_id'])
    0

Otherwise, Launchpad.set_link() will return the ID of the last Launchpad
bug linked to the remote bug.

    >>> result = server.Launchpad.set_link({'id': 1, 'launchpad_id': 11})
    >>> print(result['launchpad_id'])
    10

The new Launchpad bug ID will be recorded in the remote bug's
`internals` dict.

    >>> for key, val in bugzilla_transport.bugs[1]['internals'].items():
    ...     print("%s: %s" % (key, val))
    launchpad_id: 11
